# Cards

[[toc]]

## Overview

Cards are similar to resource tools, but are small, miniature tools that are typically displayed at the top of your dashboard, resource index, or resource detail screens. In fact, if you have used [Nova metrics](./../metrics/defining-metrics.md), you have already seen Nova cards. Custom Nova cards allow you to build own, metric-sized tools.

## Defining Cards

Cards may be generated using the `nova:card` Artisan command. By default, all new cards will be placed in the `nova-components` directory of your application. When generating a card using the `nova:card` command, the card name you pass to the command should follow the Composer `vendor/package` format. So, if we were building a traffic analytics card, we might run the following command:

```bash
php artisan nova:card acme/analytics
```

When generating a card, Nova will prompt you to install the card's NPM dependencies, compile its assets, and update your application's `composer.json` file. All custom cards are registered with your application as a Composer "path" repository.

Nova cards include all of the scaffolding necessary to build your card. Each card even contains its own `composer.json` file and is ready to be shared with the world on GitHub or the source control provider of your choice.

## Registering Cards

Nova cards may be registered in your resource's `cards` method. This method returns an array of cards available to the resource. To register your card, add your card to the array of cards returned by this method:

```php
use Acme\Analytics\Analytics;

/**
 * Get the cards available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function cards(Request $request)
{
    return [new Analytics];
}
```

### Card Options

Often, you will need to allow the consumer's of your card to customize run-time configuration options on the card. You may do this by exposing methods on your card class. These methods may call the card's underlying `withMeta` method to add information to the card's metadata, which [will be available](#card-properties) within your `Card.vue` component. The `withMeta` method accepts an array of key / value options:

```php
<?php

namespace Acme\Analytics;

use Laravel\Nova\Card;

class Analytics extends Card
{
    /**
     * The width of the card (1/3, 1/2, or full).
     *
     * @var string
     */
    public $width = '1/3';

    /**
     * Indicates that the analytics should show current visitors.
     *
     * @return $this
     */
    public function currentVisitors()
    {
        return $this->withMeta(['currentVisitors' => true]);
    }

    /**
     * Get the component name for the card.
     *
     * @return string
     */
    public function component()
    {
        return 'analytics';
    }
}
```

## Building Cards

Each card generated by Nova includes its own service provider and "card" class. Using the `analytics` card as an example, the card class will be located at `src/Analytics.php`.

The card's service provider is also located within the `src` directory of the card, and is registered in your card's `composer.json` file so that it will be auto-loaded by the Laravel framework.

### Authorization

If you would like to only expose a given card to certain users, you may chain the `canSee` method onto your card's registration. The `canSee` method accepts a Closure which should return `true` or `false`. The Closure will receive the incoming HTTP request:

```php
use Acme\Analytics\Analytics;

/**
 * Get the cards available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function cards(Request $request)
{
    return [
        (new Analytics)->canSee(function ($request) {
            return false;
        }),
    ];
}
```

### Routing

Often, you will need to define Laravel routes that are called by your card. When Nova generates your card, it creates a `routes/api.php` routes file. If needed, you may use this file to define any routes your card requires.

All routes within this file are automatically defined inside a route group by your card's `CardServiceProvider`. The route group specifies that all routes within the group should receive a `/nova-vendor/card-name` prefix, where `card-name` is the "kebab-case" name of your card. So, for example, `/nova-vendor/analytics`. You are free to modify this route group definition, but take care to make sure your Nova card will co-exist with other Nova packages.

:::danger Routing Authorization

When building routes for your card, you should **always** add authorization to these routes using Laravel gates or policies.
:::

### Assets

When Nova generates your card, `resources/js` and `resources/sass` directories are generated for you. These directories contain your card's JavaScript and Sass stylesheets. The primary files of interest in these directories are: `resources/js/components/Card.vue` and `resources/sass/card.scss`.

The `Card.vue` file is a single-file Vue component that contains your card's front-end. From this file, you are free to build your card however you want. Your card can make HTTP requests using Axios, which is available globally. In addition, the `moment.js` and `underscore.js` libraries are globally available.

#### Card Properties

Your card's `Card.vue` component receives a `card` Vue `prop`. This property provides access to any card [options](#card-options) that may be available:

```js
const currentVisitors = this.card.currentVisitors;
```

#### Registering Assets

Your Nova card's service provider registers your card's compiled assets so that they will be available to the Nova front-end:

```php
/**
 * Bootstrap any application services.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function boot()
{
    $this->app->booted(function () {
        $this->routes();
    });

    Nova::serving(function (ServingNova $event) {
        Nova::script('{{ component }}', __DIR__.'/../dist/js/card.js');
        Nova::style('{{ component }}', __DIR__.'/../dist/css/card.css');
    });
}
```

:::tip JavaScript Bootstrap & Routing

Your component is bootstrapped and registered in the `resources/js/card.js` file. You are free to modify this file or register additional components here as needed.
:::

#### Compiling Assets

Your Nova resource card contains a `webpack.mix.js` file, which is generated when Nova creates your card. You may build your card using the NPM `dev` and `prod` commands:

```bash
// Compile your assets for local development...
npm run dev

// Compile and minify your assets...
npm run prod
```

In addition, you may run the NPM `watch` command to auto-compile your assets when they are changed:

```bash
npm run watch
```
